---
layout: post
title:  "Weeknotes #013: DevOps Salad"
date:   2020-12-04 00:12:00 +0100
categories: weeknotes
version: 1.0.1
---

What I did in the 49th week of 2020

## Work

Ok I admit it.

I do not really enjoy DevOps, or the Infrastructure building part of being a developer. Yes, it is an essential part of the job. Yes, your apps need somewhere to run. Yes, there is some joy in a well running machine. However I never get excited about wiring these bits up. It is always a means to a more exciting end.

A healthy, balanced developer diet is not always the most exciting, but I know I will be a better dev for regularly partaking.

This week ended up looking like a DevOps salad. A tumble of little infrastructure jobs, tweaks and learning about our servers. I refreshed myself on our deployment pipelines with concourse, learned how the UK's [Platform as a Service][1] scales on AWS, and helped improve our monitoring. For all my complaining, it was actually quite nice, the variety helps!

Pretty good timing too, I went on call again this week. Occasionally you need to move quickly to fix something, this balanced diet of server and monitoring knowledge surely helps.

## Otherwise

Oof, even with easing back into tiered restrictions (a mere "tier 2" in my patch), I am missing a bit more difference.
I have let things become slightly repetitive and a little same-y. I think usually holidays, visits to friends and other adventures would have broken things up a bit.

I'll have to try and make life salad next week and find a way to sneak some variety in there too. Some leave coming up should help.

## Read

I kept on reading this week, re-starting "Who We Are and How We got Here" a mindblowing book on genetics and human history by David Reich. I am reading and re-reading it slowly, and should write something soon. I feel each chapter is littered with exciting surprises from a cutting edge of paleontology.

I also read all of The Fat Years by Chan Koonchung. A really interesting read with a strong premise (an entire country loses a month?), it has a strong piece it wants to say about power, rule and China. Its structure is also very unlike things I have read before, I wonder how much of this is a Chinese literary style or just this Author.

Finally I also read The Doors of Eden by Adrian Tchaikovsky. I read "Children of Time" and "Children of Ruin" a year or so ago. The author pulls a similar trick here giving us something alien that is very close to home. I love these kind of books, gives me something truly alien to marvel, with all the familiarity and plausibility of things that I can find in my back garden. You get a fun story and newfound wonder for what is outside your own door.

## Listened to

A bit of current affairs but not a lot again. I am actually thinking of cutting back on my podcast subscriptions a bit. The ever growing pile starts to feel like an in tray. Plus, I am really enjoying books right now.

## Thinking about

- So much fog around right now, I wonder why? Every window frames an eerie scene.

[1]: https://www.cloud.service.gov.uk/
